# MSCohort
**Please download the latest version of MSCohort in the release area on the right.**

MSCohort is a tool for extracting comprehensive metrics and assisting users in evaluating and optimizing the performance of LC–MS/MS. This tool extracts 70 metrics covering the whole LC-MS/MS workflow, which enables to perform individual experiment and the whole cohort quality evaluation for data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics. Moreover, we established the relationship between the extracted metrics and the identification results through a scoring system in MSCohort for the DIA workflow, directly and effectively indicating the directions and methods for the optimization of individual DIA experiment. More importantly, MSCohort provides a comprehensive quality assessment report for large-scale experiments, which assists in detecting the variations across experiments and instruments, flagging low-performing experiments, and correcting the heterogeneity between experiments, to facilitate data quality control and experimental standardization with large cohort studies. It enables the analysis of vendor data generated from Thermo Orbitrap, Bruker timsTOF, and SCIEX ZenoTOF instruments. Taken together, these features make MSCohort a valuable software tool for evaluating and optimizing the performance of experiments for  large cohort proteomics studies.

The demo dataset has been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (https://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the iProX partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD050389 (in ProteomeXchange) and IPX0008331000 (in iProX). You can download this dataset for testing and using MSCohort.
